Directly attaching a battery to a solar panel
---------------------------------------------

Most solar chargers on the market merely connect the panel directly to 
the battery being charged through a diode, and disconnect it once the 
battery is charged up. However, the greater the voltage difference 
between the panel's output voltage and the battery's voltage, the 
greater will be the amount of solar panel power wasted this way. As an 
example we look at a Li-Ion battery directly connect to a 12V panel:

* Li-Ion cell voltage = ~4V (average)
* Vmp (voltage at maximum power) = 10V
* Imp (current at maximum power) = 1.0A
* -> Pmp (maximum power) = 10W
* Voc (open-circuit voltage) = 12V
* Isc (short-circuit current) = 1.1A

The battery will draw all the current until the panel voltage drops to 
4V, but since the panel can't give more than 1.1A, the 4.4W drawn from
the panel will be less than half of its maximum power. 


MPP voltage holder modules
--------------------------

MPP modules with manually set Vmp do monitor both the input and the 
output voltages and currents independently and will reduce the output 
current if the input voltage starts going below the set Vmp, but will 
never increase the output voltage or current above its set limits, 
regardless of the input power available:

* Vin > Vmp: module works like a normal CV/CC DC-DC converter
* Vin < Vmp: module limits the output current to let Vin rise
							   
To regulate Vmp feed the module with a PSU in CC mode and attach a load.
Now read the set Vmp on your input voltage display.

Attention: MPP changes with illumination but also with cell temperature.

Note: for marketing reasons many seller like to call them MPPT modules,
      probably they mean 'Manual Power Point Trimmable' ;-)


MPPT controllers
----------------

As opposed to MPP modules the MPPT controllers are more sophisticated 
and do automatically track the maximum power point by different 
algorithms. The most commonly used algorithm is perturb and observe 
(P&O), where the solar panel voltage is slightly increased or decreased 
in steps while measuring the output power. If such increase or decrease 
of voltage decreases the output power, the direction of the panel 
voltage change is reversed, but if the power keeps increasing, the 
direction of the voltage change remains until the output power starts 
dropping. 

If a battery is guaranteed to be attached to a MPPT controller, then 
all you have to do is vary the duty cycle of the buck converter to 
maximize the battery charge current (you don't even need to sense the 
solar panel voltage or current if you don't want to). Of course, if the 
charge current is higher than the maximum allowable charge current, you 
need to abandon MPPT and do battery current limited charging instead. 
Likewise, if the battery reaches its maximum allowable voltage, you 
have to abandon MPPT and implement voltage limited charging instead. 
